# Visualizing_Personal_Loan_Data
A data visualization project on personal loan data from Prosper, a peer-to-peer lending company. The project covers univariate, bivariate and multivariate vairable exploration and a presentation of my insights. 

# Peer-to-Peer Personal Loan Data Exploration
## by Zalon Wong


## Dataset

This data set contains details of 113,937 loans with 81 variables on each loan, including loan amount, borrower rate (or interest rate), current loan status, borrower income, and many others. The terms in this data set are explained in details in [this webpage](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gDyi_L4UvIrLTEC6Wri5nbaMmkGmLQBk-Yx3z0XDEtI/edit#gid=0).


## Summary of Findings

In the bivariate exploration, I found an implicit negative relationship between available bank card credit and borrower rate, and an implicit negative relationship between stated monthly income and borrower rate. While further exploring the relationship, I concentrated on the top borrower rate of groups of applicants of different available bank card credit ranges and stated monthly income. The results align with the initial negative trend. To my surprise, home ownership doesn't give any advantage to loan borrower. Being a home owner actually slightly prohibits applicants from getter a lower rate. 



## Key Insights for Presentation

I presented the the relationship between available bank card credit and borrower rate, and the relationship between stated monthly income and borrower rate. The negative correlations are displayed by the regression lines generated by seaborn. Furthermore, I created a line plot to show how maximum interest rate correlates with borrowers' bank card credit and how home ownership plays a role in it. 
